Today we are going to help you plan your schedule and register for classes.  You should meet with an academic advisor early each quarter to plan your schedule for the next quarter and to insure you get the classes you need to complete your program. You can select from our home page, “classes” or “quarterly class schedule.” The academic calendar provides important dates and deadlines, such as the first day of the quarter, the last day to receive a refund, and the last day to withdraw.Download your verification of enrollment for employers, for student loan deferments, for third party agencies. You can also order officials transcripts or track the progress of your transcript request. Let’s look at a sample class, Spanish 1. Here you can see the item number of the course. You will need this four-digit number to register for your course, the name of class. This also shows how many credits, class location, and if you hover, it will show you where to find that course on campus, how often that class meets. This class meets daily from 9AM until 9:50 AM. Also indicates the instructor. If you click on that, it gives you instructor information or Web site, depending on the instructor and if they have set up the Web site. This class is open, you can still register. The coding CCN is common course number; WL  - world languages listed for your program. And this course fulfills VLPA -Visual Literary Performance Arts for your transfer degree. This common course number CCN -  the advisor will help you to see how this transfers to your four-year university.Going back to online services -- You can quickly and easily take care of your college business through online services. You can look up your schedule or grades, register, add or drop classes, update your home address, email or phone number, change your PIN, pay your tuition, confirm your Web registration start time, check your wait list status and get enrollment degree verification. Two of the important services available online are paying tuition and setting up your net ID account. Tuition is due within 7 business days after you register or prior to the first day of the quarter, whichever date comes first. There are 3 ways to pay your tuition: through online services, through the deferred payment plan, which allows you to pay your tuition in multiple installments, or in person at the cashier’s office.    If you fail to make payment by the deadline, your classes will be dropped, unless you have made other arrangements via a third party payer, such as the deferred payment plan or financial aid. A Net ID account is available to all currently enrolled North Seattle Community College students. You must have a Net ID in order to access most computers on campus. Net ID accounts also provide access to many other services. New students can create a Net ID account after they have enrolled.How to register - Although you can register in person at the registration office, most students register online for their classes. You will need to be aware how to add and drop classes, how to add and remove yourself from a waiting list, and how to use entry codes when needed. From online services you can access the register and drop classes menu. Here all you have to do is input your student ID and your student PIN number. Now you add and drop classes. You may register on a space available basis at online services. In the registration menu you are able to add and drop classes. In the box on the left, it will ask you for the item number we mentioned earlier. Once you ready to submit, press submit add and drop, and it will inform you that the following class is full. For example we input 9561, which denotes the course is Anthropology 206. It also informing us that the class is full, and asking us if you wish to enroll in the waiting list. If you wish, you can add yourself to the waiting list.Adding ClassesYou may register on a space-available basis at Online Services.First through the fourth day of the quarter: Classes may be added through Online Services or in person WITHOUT an instructor's signature and on a space-available basis.Fifth through the tenth day of the quarter: Classes may be added only with an instructor's signature or with an e-mail from an instructor for elearning classes.After the tenth day of the quarter (the eighth day in summer quarter): Students may no longer add classes.Dropping Classes You can drop a class through Online Services or in person through the tenth instructional day of the quarter (eighth day for summer) without a record of the dropped class appearing on your academic transcript.Withdrawing from Classes You may withdraw from classes using Online Services or in person. A grade of "W" will be recorded on your academic transcript for withdrawals made after the tenth instructional day of the quarter (the eighth day for summer quarter). A “W” grade cannot be removed.After the eighth week of the quarter (the sixth week of summer quarter), you may not withdraw from classes. If you have missed the deadline, please talk with your instructor about other available grade options.Now, to drop a class we have to put the item number into the box on the left, and press submit add/drop. It will give us a warning on the action we are about to do. Now we have dropped the class and no longer have to make any payments.Waiting Lists The waiting list feature offers you a fair and consistent method of being enrolled into a full class if an opening occurs. If a class with the waiting list option is full and you choose to be put on the waiting list, you will be automatically enrolled in the class when a space becomes available. You will receive an e-mail alert every time your waiting list status changes. If you have a “hold” on your college record that prevents you from being added to a particular class from the waiting list, you will also be notified of the hold as soon as you are added to the waiting list. You should take steps as early as possible to clear the hold. Once you have arrived at position one (1) on the waiting list, you will have two business days to clear the hold or you will be dropped from the waiting list. Please contact the telephone number provided by the e-mail alert to clear the hold.You will also be notified by e-mail alert that you have been registered for the class. You will have 24 hours to pay for outstanding tuition and fees. If you decide you no longer want to be on the waiting list for a class, please use the Waitlist Inquiry and Update application to remove yourself from the list.	If you have not been registered via the waiting list process by the first day of classes, go to the class on the first day. The automated waiting list process will continue to enroll students into classes through the fourth day of the quarter (third day for summer). If you have not been enrolled by this date, obtain an instructor's signature as an “overload” and register in person. Some classes may not have a waiting list option.From online services you can check your waitlist status. Enter your student ID and your student PIN and you will be able to see your current waiting list status for the classes you have chosen to wait list. To remove yourself, all you have to do is click on the box and press submit. 27:44 In this case, we are number 3 on the waiting list.Important Note: Students on a waiting list who do not show up to class during the first sessions of the class may lose their waiting list place to another student who wishes to be enrolled.Entry Codes  Entry codes are five-digit numbers issued to students for classes that have unmet prerequisites, prerequisites met at another college or require permission by an instructor. Entry codes are used for registering online. Once an entry code has been used, the computer will not accept the same code again. Entry codes are available for unmet prerequisites through Advising, or, for permission classes, from the academic division. Good luck with registration and have a great quarter.   